+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 1 "
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit One"
hidden = true
+++

## An Introduction to Python Programming and the OO Programming Paradigm

The first week of module two has been a real eye-opener. The learning materials we've been given are packed with everything you need to know about object-oriented programming (OOP), from its core concepts to its historical development. In the 2021 paper by Di Silvestro & Nadir, they talk about using ePortfolios to promote deeper, more reflective learning, which is something traditional education often overlooks. The paper presents a compelling discourse on the benefits of ePortfolios. However, one assertion that stands as intriguing, and arguably contestable, is the principal thesis of the article: the prospect of achieving deeper learning or transformation into a more reflective individual. The paper employs a visual reinforcement of this claim, prominently through the use of student quotations. While the research seems to have been conducted with thoroughness, this can be seen as an indication of institutional bias.

For hands-on work, I've been knee-deep in Python, I've read a lot of materials, and I created a _small_ program that uses both protected and unprotected variables. This really shined a light on encapsulation and data hiding, which are key to OOP. Protected variables start with an underscore and are meant to tell developers to be careful. On the other hand, unprotected variables are available from outside the class so you can use it as you see fit. I went further and also added a private variable, which start with a double underscore. This variable can't be accessed from outside the class as demonstrated below.

Below is a small example:

```python3

class MyClass:
    def __init__(self):
        self.public_var = 'I am public'
        self._protected_var = 'I am protected'
        self.__private_var = 'I am private'

    def reveal_all(self):
        return f'{self.public_var}, {self._protected_var}, {self.__private_var}'

if __name__ == "__main__":
    obj = MyClass()
    print(obj.public_var)
    print(obj._protected_var)
    print(obj.reveal_all())

    # You cannot access private variables from outside the class so this will throw an error
    try:
        print(obj.__private_var)
    except AttributeError:
        print("Cannot access private variable")
```

It's to be noted that Python doesn't rigidly police this, but sticking to these norms helps keep the code clean and efficient. Speaking of clean code, I've read the PEP 8 from Python Style Guide (Van Rossum, G., Warsaw, B. & Coghlan, N., 2001), it's actually quite lengthy, but, it explains in details why things are as they are and their thought process at the time.

Overall, an exciting unit. I can't wait to deepen my understanding of OOP and sharpen my Python skills in the coming weeks.