+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 11"
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit Eleven"
hidden = true
+++

# Pointers, References & Memory, and Design Patterns

Week 11! Assigment week!

I managed to submit my design implementation assignment on time! I won't lie, I'm pretty happy about it.
Again, work has been busy and stressful, so having completed the assignment is a total relief.
Reflecting on this, I believe I managed to fullfill the requirements I designed a couple of weeks ago. It was nice to be able to turn the UML diagrams into a working python application. As requested, I also wrote automated unit tests for the assisgment. I choose pytest, and I don't regret it a bit. It's easy to use and I even managed to use fixtures to make the code more concise. Fixtures are like decorators and really powerful. I just hope I understood the assigment right - Sometimes it's not super easy to gather all the information from the course website.

After reading this week's materials, the big revelation was the link between coding and carbon footprints. Zhu et al. and Podder et al. made me pause and reflect on the environmental impact of my code. I had never even considered it. It was a wake-up call to think about how my choices as a developer can affect our planet. I also learned that Python ranks pretty low compared to other languages in environmental friendliness (Kesk, 2022), so it's important to make it effective.

Just another week to go and I'll be able to relax for two weeks, I can't wait!

## References

Kesk (2022). What Are the Greenest Programming Languages? [online].
Available at: https://medium.com/codex/what-are-the-greenest-programming-languages-e738774b1957. [Accessed 23 July 2023].