+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 2"
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit Two"
hidden = true
+++

## Object Oriented Analysis - Initial Steps towards Programming in Python

The second unit of this module had us diving headfirst into the nuts and bolts of how actors interact with software. We also explored functional requirements that shape these interactions. The high point for me was designing use case diagrams and state machine diagrams. These diagrams really help give a clear and concise snapshot on how systems behave and interact with each others.

Working on a use case diagram for a pretend software development situation was a real eye-opener. It's become clear to me how crucial these diagrams are in gathering requirements, as they paint a crystal clear picture of how the software interacts with its users. I found the piece by Rumbaugh, Jacobson, & Booch on the Unified Modeling Language (2004) to be an invaluable guide in this process.

On the practical side, I got more into Python programming. In this unit I focused on the concept of inheritance in OOP, which was a great reminder of the importance of code reusability and extensibility. In addition to the reading material provided, I also read an article on OOP from realpython.com (Python, n.d.) which details the very fundamentals of OOP and it's applicability in Python. Really interesting.

### Optional extension activities

Write a Python program to achieve basic employee-related functionality which includes retaining employee details and allowing an employee to book a day of annual leave. Extend the Python program you have now created to use protected and unprotected variables

```python3
class Employee:
    def __init__(self, name, annual_leave):
        self.name = name
        self._annual_leave = annual_leave

    def book_holiday(self, days):
        if days > self._annual_leave:
            return "Insufficient annual leave"
        else:
            self._annual_leave -= days
            return f"Leave booked. You now have {self._annual_leave} days of annual leave remaining."

    def get_annual_leave(self):
        return self._annual_leave

    def set_annual_leave(self, days):
        self._annual_leave = days


if __name__ == "__main__":
    emp = Employee("Sebastien", 25)
    print(emp.book_holiday(5))
    print(emp.get_annual_leave())
```

### Output
```bash
Leave booked. You now have 20 days of annual leave remaining.
20
```

## References

Python (n.d.). Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) in Python 3 – Real Python. [online] realpython.com.
Available from: https://realpython.com/python3-object-oriented-programming/. [Accessed 23 July 2023].
