+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 4"
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit Four"
hidden = true
+++

## UML

In Week 4, I dug deeper into the world of UML models. This fourth unit introduced class diagrams. Class diagrams are quite important as they show the structure of a system, its classes, their methods, and how each object relate to each other.

As the week progressed, it felt like these UML diagrams were the blueprints, and I was the builder turning them into actual code. It was pretty cool to see how an abstract idea in a UML diagram could become a fully working software system.

Reading Glinz's paper from 2000 on the problems and deficiencies of UML as a requirements specification language definitely gave me a different perspective. It was a good reminder that even though UML is a powerful tool, it's not perfect. There are challenges, particularly when you're trying to express non-functional requirements or real-time constraints.

The additional reading materials, made me look into Python debugging and IDEs such as PyCharm and Visual Studio Code. I have setup Visual Studio Code on my machine. I also installed a couple of extensions and managed to setup the debugger to work seamlessly with Python. I can now put breakpoints in my code and the debugger pick them up as the code runs, pretty cool.

Reflecting on the week, I think the biggest takeaway was seeing how important a well-crafted UML is for successful software development. I'm not sure if I have a good graps on the UML models yet. I know myself, and I can see how I would easily make a mistake, but I'll carry on learning.