+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 7"
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit Seven"
hidden = true
+++

## Debugging / Error Handling, Data Structures and Data Search

Week seven was all about bugs 🐛 and debugging. It was about understanding how, when and why they crawl into my code and the best ways to boot them out.
Honestly, getting hands-on with different error types felt like developing a sixth sense for catching where my code needed a little extra attention.

I learned about linters, too - they're like those grammar apps, but for Python code. They scan through your code and flag down any parts that might cause trouble, a huge help in keeping the code neat and efficient. I think I like flake8 (flake8.pycqa.org, n.d.) and black (Black, 2023) a lot.

This week I also explored further into the world of data structures. Picture this: you're juggling a bunch of different types of data and need to find the best way to organize them, so you don't lose your mind - that's where understanding lists, tuples, and dictionaries comes in. I think I'll be able to use those data structures in my Unit 11 assignment.

Speaking of assignments, this week I need to submit my System Design for summative assessment. I hope what I've learned so far on UML will help me score a good grade.

Did I find everything easy? Not exactly. Getting to _really_ understand data structures and search algorithms was a lot to deal with. But, as they say, practice makes perfect. So, I shall continue learning and exploring.

## References

- flake8.pycqa.org. (n.d.). Flake8: Your Tool For Style Guide Enforcement — flake8 6.0.0 documentation. [online]
Available at: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/. [Accessed 23 July 2023].

- Black (2023). Black: The uncompromising Python code formatter. [online] GitHub.
Available at: https://github.com/psf/black [Accessed 23 July 2023].