+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 2 - Unit 9"
date = "2023-07-23"
description = "Module two, Unit Nine"
hidden = true
+++

# Packaging and Testing

During week 9, I looked into the less flashy, but no less important, side of programming: packaging, documenting, and testing.
These aren't just box-ticking exercises – they're pivotal for maintaining and improving my work effectively.

I learned that packaging my Python programs is crucial for distributing software easily. I spent some time with the Python Enhancement Proposals, PEP8 and PEP257, and the message was clear – writing clean, readable and tested code is a big deal.

After reading a couple of chapters from Software Testing and Analysis: Process, Principles, and Techniques, I now understand the differences between unit, integration, and E2E testing. Following this reading, I also researched the current industry standards, specifically looking into the differences between unittest and pytest, I personally prefer the latter. The syntax is more user friendly and the documentation is top-notch. I'm definitely going to make testing a key part of my coding routine from now on.

This week has shown me that professional programming practices aren't just nice-to-haves. They're the bread and butter of creating robust, maintainable software systems in the real world.

Again, I didn't have time to post on the forum, but I promise I'll do it this upcoming week 🤞


## Activities

Extend the following program to test accuracy of operations using the assert statement.

```python3
# Python String Operations
str1 = 'Hello'
str2 ='World!'

# using +
print('str1 + str2 = ', str1 + str2)

# using *
print('str1 * 3 =', str1 * 3)
```

### Answer

```python3
# Python String Operations
str1 = "Hello"
str2 = "World!"

# using +
concatenated_str = str1 + str2
print("str1 + str2 = ", concatenated_str)
assert concatenated_str == "HelloWorld!"

# using *
multiplied_str = str1 * 3
print("str1 * 3 =", multiplied_str)
assert multiplied_str == "HelloHelloHello"

```