+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 1 "
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit One"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 1: Introduction to Secure Software Development

And we're back! After a two week pause from the previous module, we're kicking off the first unit with software development methodologies.
The agile methodology, with its popular adaptability, stands out as particularly useful for embedding security within the software development lifecycle.

I came across a paper that, despite being a few years old, offered insightful perspectives on integrating security practices within agile frameworks. The authors advocated for a proactive approach to security, emphasising its importance from the early stages of development. (Agile and Secure Software Development: An Unfinished Story, 2019)

During this first unit, we were also tasked with choosing an UML diagram tool and selecting a coding weakness highlighted by OWASP.
I researched a bit and found one that spoke to me, BOLA, Broken Object Level Authorization. I found interesting that BOLA was a thing as I
thought that you'd have software that could automatically check for vulnerabilities like this. I even learnt that Uber, suffered an API BOLA breach back in 2019.

Looking ahead, I am looking to further understand agile methodologies, enhance my UML skills, and explore standards in secure software development.


## References

Agile and Secure Software Development: An Unfinished Story. (2019). Issues In Information Systems. doi:https://doi.org/10.48009/1_iis_2019_144-156.