+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 3"
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit Eleven"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 11:

Hello and welcome to Week 11! We're in the final run of this module now! Exciting!

This week, we're looked into the future, exploring the up-and-coming trends in secure software development.

We’ve talked about a lot of different topics in this module, but this week, it’s like we’re looking through a telescope, catching a glimpse of what’s on the horizon in terms of secure design, development practices, programming languages, and operating systems.

Amidst the chaos of work and assignments, the concept of Fog Computing piqued my interest. It's a game-changer, sitting comfortably between our cloud and the ground. Alongside it, we looked at the Internet of Things (IoT) and how it's intricately connected with Cyber Physical Systems. It's astounding to think that the devices we casually use might be the nerve centers of tomorrow's technological landscape.

While exploring these systems, we confronted the security challenges they present. The readings did a fantastic job here. Roman, Lopez, and Mambo's exploration into the security threats and challenges of Mobile Edge Computing and Fog was a sobering reminder of the importance of continuous learning in the ever-evolving field of secure software development.

This week was also assignment week. Adesola, Hainadine and I submitted our LMS coding output assignment for review. We haven't heard back yet, but I'm really hoping for a good grade. We had a 30 minute session with our tutor to demonstrate what we have managed to achieve and to give her a demo of the running application. On the testing side, we've managed to achieve a 90% test coverage and we wrote a whooping 80 unit tests.

As we wrap up Week 11, I feel like a tech futurist, ready to explore and embrace the emerging trends in secure software development. The future is bright, and I am ready for it. Onwards to Week 12!

# Activities

This week, I unfortunately didn't have time to participate in the Team Activity.
My current workload, the time zone difference and the LMS assignment to submit have all contributed to the lack of engagement with my fellow students.

I don't like not participating, but I was out of depth here, juggling everything was tough.