+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 12"
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit Twelve"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 12: The Great Tanenbaum-Torvalds Debate Revisited

Welcome to the grand finale of our SSD journey, Week 12!

In the concluding week of this module, we revisited the historic Tanenbaum-Torvalds debate: monolithic and microkernel-based operating systems.

Tanenbaum championed microkernels for their modularity and fault isolation, while Torvalds demonstrated the practical efficiency of monolithic kernels with Linux. The 1992 hardware limitations framed their discussions, starkly contrasting today’s cloud-centric, security-threatened environment.

Our readings, including works by Biggs et al. and Bucchiarone et al., highlighted microkernel advantages in security and the transformation from monolithic to microservices in banking.

I won't lie, it's been a long twelve weeks. I'm happy with how this module went. There was a good structure to it and our Tutor kept us accountable.
It was a good mix of personal and team based projects. I have learned that working as a team towards the same goal comes with its own challenges, but,
I've also enjoyed working in Team Unity, we managed to deliver two assignments as a team in the last couple of weeks, not bad!

I am definitely looking forward to a good week off so I can relax before tackling the next module: Network Security.

Thanks a lot for reading this module's reflection. I hope you managed to get a small glimpse on my studies.