+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 3"
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit Five"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 5: An Introduction to Testing

Wow, week 5 already! Time flies! This week, we were challenged with the world of software testing. It’s been a bit tough, trying to get my head around all the testing lingo, different techniques, and tools out there.

We’ve covered a lot of material, from setting up a solid test plan and understanding the standards in the industry to digging into a bunch of testing methods.

After this week, I feel more confident to:
- Talk the talk when it comes to software testing terms.
- Knowing what to ask when I’m putting a test plan together.
- Designing tests that are really meaningful security wise.

This week wasn’t just about learning the tools of the trade; it was about understanding why testing is such a game changer in software development. It’s all about spotting those weak spots in the software where attacks could happen and doing something about it before it’s too late.

All in all, Week 5 has been pretty good. It’s made me realise just how crucial testing is, not just for making sure everything works, but for keeping things secure.

I’m walking away with a whole new perspective on how important it is to build security into software from the get-go. I really cannot wait to put all of this into practice!


## Activities

Equivalence Testing in Python

The script’s equivalence_partition function efficiently categorises an iterable into equivalence classes based on a given relation.

In the example code, integers from -3 to 4 are grouped under the relation (x - y) % 4 == 0, showcasing how numbers with differences divisible by 4 are placed in the same class.

Running the script gives a clear output, visualising the formed equivalence classes and their respective elements. This not only validates the partitioning method but also enhances understanding of the technique.

While the implementation is straightforward and effective, it is crucial to be mindful of its O(n^2) complexity, particularly with larger datasets.

I want to explore it further, I'll have a look into:
- Experimenting with different equivalence relations.
- Applying the method to varied data types
- Investigating more efficient algorithms for scalability.

The equivalence testing script in Codio provided a good example on how testing can be leveraged for code efficiency.

