+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 3"
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit Six"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 6: Using Linters to Support Python Testing

Week 6! We're half way there!

This week, I studied linters and their vital part in enhancing Python code quality. While linters don't make your code better per say, they definitely help you in your day to day job and take away some cognitive load to help you better focus on the code.

Working with various linters, I discovered that while they aim to achieve similar goals, each has its unique strengths and applicability in different scenarios. They act as vigilant watchdogs, ensuring code consistency and helping to catch potential errors before they escalate.

I've experimented with a few different linters this week, Flake8, Pylama, Pylint, Ruff just to name a few. My favourite is Ruff. It's light and blazing fast. I think I'll use it for the coding output in week 11.

The readings, particularly "Secure Feature Driven Development (SFDD) Model" by Firdaus, Ghani, and Jeong, provided valuable insights into integrating security at the developmental stage. This connection between high-quality code and security is crucial, and it’s something I’m now more mindful of.

Reflecting on this week’s learnings, I realise how integral tools like linters are in supporting the development of secure and high-quality software. I never thought that a tool like a linter could make you a better developer, but this week I've been proven wrong!

This week we also had to submit the Design Document as a team. We met with my fellow students a couple of times to discuss how to design our application.
We have choosen a Learning Management System (LMS) application for a school. As a current student, this made perfect sense to me!

I believe we did good, we received a 69% grade, 1 mark off the distinction level! Not bad, but I'm a bit gutted. Hopefully, we can get there on the next assignment.

## Code

Here's a sample of python code and how three different linter (Flake8, Black, Pylint) would react:

```python3
def add(a,b):
    return a+b

result=add(1,2)
print("Sum is:",result)
```

1) Flake8

```bash
sample.py:1:9: E231 missing whitespace after ','
sample.py:2:10: E225 missing whitespace around operator
sample.py:4:1: E303 too many blank lines (3)
sample.py:4:6: E221 multiple spaces before operator
sample.py:4:13: E231 missing whitespace after ','
```

2) Black
It's interesting to see black just auto formats all the code for you. It definitely saves you times.

```python3
def add(a, b):
    return a + b


result = add(1, 2)
print("Sum is:", result)
```

3) Pylint

```bash
************* Module sample
sample.py:1:0: C0103: Function name "add" doesn't conform to snake_case naming style (invalid-name)
sample.py:1:8: C0326: Exactly one space required after comma (bad-whitespace)
sample.py:2:0: C0303: Trailing whitespace (trailing-whitespace)
sample.py:2:11: C0326: Exactly one space required around operator (bad-whitespace)
sample.py:4:0: C0304: Final newline missing (missing-final-newline)
sample.py:4:7: C0326: Exactly one space required before assignment (bad-whitespace)
sample.py:4:13: C0326: Exactly one space required after comma (bad-whitespace)

-----------------------------------
Your code has been rated at -12.50/10
```

You can see that those three tools do the same thing but in completely different ways.
This has left me wondering if you can combine them together to make your code better.