+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Module 3 - Unit 7"
date = "2023-10-28"
description = "Module three, Unit Seven"
hidden = true
+++

## Unit 7:  Introduction to Operating Systems

Week 7, here we go! This week was all about Operating Systems (OS) and how they play with programming languages and security.

Operating Systems, are like the backstage crew of a rock concert. You don’t see them, but they make sure everything runs smoothly. This week, I got to learn how applications talk to OS for things like getting keyboard input or showing elements on the screen. And it’s clearly not just about making things work; it’s also about keeping them secure!

We talked about different OS, and it was great to see how they’re not all the same. I also learned about processes, threads, and schedulers – it’s like learning how the OS juggles a million processes at once. And libraries! We got into the nitty-gritty of static vs dynamic libraries.

This week, we also looked at security! We looked at ways to make OS more secure and talked about some of the risks and vulnerabilities. Virtualisation is another big word that popped up – I learned about Docker too, their website states: Make better, secure software from the start. What's not to like about that?

So, wrapping up this week, I feel like I’ve got a better grip on how Operating Systems work and why they’re so crucial, not just for making things work but for keeping them safe too. On to the next week!

# Activities

Ontology is essentially a way to map out and categorise knowledge. You can break it down into concepts and the connections between them inside a domain.

For the summative assessment system I'm designing, I could create an ontology to lay out all the different parts and relationships.

This could cover elements like Students, Assessments, Questions, Answers, and Grades, showing how they all fit together.

For example, it would clarify that an Assessment is made up of several Questions, Students are supposed to provide Answers, and then those Answers are used to calculate Grades.