+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 1"
date = "2024-03-20"
description = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 1"
hidden = true
+++

## Introduction to Software Engineering Project Management

After a (very) extended break for the holiday period, we're now back in full swing. This is my next to last module and I'm excited for it!

This module introduces us to the concept of Project Management. Full disclaimer, I do not intent to become a PM, but I still believe it would be beneficial for me to understand how the world of project management works. Understanding both side of the equation is always beneficial.

This unit provided a solid introduction to the role of a Software Engineering Project Manager (SEPM) and how it differs from traditional project management. My main takeaway is that SEPMs need to balance both project management skills (like resource allocation and planning), and technical software engineering skills.

I found the overview of common tools and certifications to be useful, though it could have gone into a bit more depth on which ones are most relevant for aspiring SEPMs.

This module will have a team based project which seems like it will be very hands-on and practical. I believe this is the best way to really understand and apply any new concepts. I'm excited to explore into the different SDLC methodologies and gain experience using them on a real project.

Overall, this was an effective introductory unit that laid the groundwork for the rest of the module. The mix of historical context, discussion of real failed projects, and hands-on team project work seems well-designed to provide both theoretical and practical exposure to key SEPM concepts and challenges.

I'm looking forward to building on this foundation in the coming weeks.


### References and futher reading
- Benington, H.D. (1987). Production of large computer programs. International Conference on Software Engineering, pp.299–310. doi:https://doi.org/10.5555/41765.41799.

- Ruhe, G. and Wohlin, C. eds., (2014). Software Project Management in a Changing World. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-55035-5.