+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 3"
date = "2024-04-03"
description = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 3"
hidden = true
+++

## Estimating, Planning and Risk

In unit 3, we explored some more concepts in the project management space such as estimation, planning and risk. The unit highlighted and explored the importance of accurate estimation, proper planning and comprehensive risk assesment in software project management.

As usual, we started with some historical review of all the tooling used in project management and then we moved on to more recent methodologies.

If I had to summarise the three main components these would be my takeaways:

### Estimating Tools
Reflecting on the estimating tools, I enjoyed the historical context provided by Brooks (1975) in "The Mythical Man-Month". I really like Brooks' law, which states that adding manpower to a late software project makes it later. I can so relate to this. I am actually quite surprise I've never heard about Brooks' law before. I also do have to admit that I kind of agree with his Bermuda plan (remove most developers from the project to speed up the delivery). From my own experience, removing people from projects do allow to speed up the delivery. It enables everyone part of the project to just be able to focus on the tasks and removes the overall noise. Anyway, this clearly reinforced the need for accurate estimates and highlighted the pitfalls of over-reliance on adding resources to meet hard business deadlines.

### Planning Tools
In this unit, we also rewieved planning tools like Gantt charts and PERT. In some previous modules of this course, I had already used Gantt charts, but this was a good refresher. However, this week also made me recognise their limitations, such as the potential for overly optimistic timelines and more importantly, the lack of flexibility in adapting to changes. This critical perspective was supported by Stellman and Greene (2008), who discussed the balance between detailed planning and agile adaptation.

### Risk Assessment
I have never done a "real" risk assesment before, so reading Hubbard (2009) on the failures of traditional risk management provided a good view on current practices. The emphasis on data and probabilistic models in risk assessment was a key takeaway for me. This made me realise the importance that identifying risks is not clearly not enough, you also need to quantify and plan for their potential impacts.


### e-Portfolio Activity: Data Structures Reflection
As I use the UoEO platform nearly every day, I thought I would analyse and reflect on it. If I were to build something similar myself, this is how I would do it:

- I would use hash tables for user authentification, mapping the students username to its password with constant time complexity (0(1)).
- For the course content, I would use Trees (such as Binary Search Trees) to keep all the content organised hierarchically.
- For managing the relationship between students, courses and activities, I would use Graphs.
- Finally, I'd use queues for task scheduling, for example, for sending reminder emails for upcoming assignments.

Dicheva & Hodge (2018) emphasise that active learning and engagement with data structures is crucial for an LMS's content and user interactions. For example, implementing quizzes or forums requires efficient data handling to maintain system performance and user experience. The use of appropriate data structures ensures that the LMS remains responsive and reliable, even under heavy load.


### References and futher reading

- Brooks, P. (1975) The Mythical Man-Month - Essays in Software Engineering. Anniversary ed. Addison-Wesley.
- Campbell, T. (2017). Practical Information Security Management. Apress.
- Stellman, A., Greene, J. and Proquest (2006). Applied software project management. Sebastopol, Ca: O’reilly.
- Van Der Linden, J., Amadieu, F., Vayre, E. and Van De Leemput, C. (2019). User Experience and Social Influence: A New Perspective for UX Theory. Design, User Experience, and Usability. Design Philosophy and Theory, pp.98–112. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-23570-3_9.
- Dicheva, D. and Hodge, A. (2018). Active Learning through Game Play in a Data Structures Course. Proceedings of the 49th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education. doi:https://doi.org/10.1145/3159450.3159605.

