+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 4"
date = "2024-04-10"
description = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 4"
hidden = true
+++

## Estimating Tools and Risk Assessment

As I reflect on unit 4, I am starting to feel that I am getting a bit better on all things related to project management. This week, I have enjoyed the more recent reading materials, it's a nice change from reading about project management in the 70s.

In this unit, I met with my fellow group students for the first time. You'd think that with a deadline due in two weeks we would have met sooner but no. I have to completely come clean here, I don't particularly enjoy group tasks. So I am not really looking forward to it. I do understand the need for group tasks to simulate a "real-world" environment, but I just can't seem to bring myself to enjoy them. While I do not enjoy group tasks, I am still fully dedicated to them, I'll do everything to get the best grade possible.

I met with Hainadine and Rocio, we were also supposed to have Uladzislau on the call but he actually never showed up. I did enjoy the discussion we had with both Hainadine and Rocio. I felt like we were on the same page which was quite pleasant. I've been paired with Hainadine in a previous module so I knew he could be relied on. I appreciated all the ground work that Rocio did. She clearly came more prepared to the call that I did, a bit shameful on my part. We established how we would break down the assignments and split up the responsibilities. I was now in charge of hardware and software engineering. We then agreed that I would write an outline and come up with a first draft for the assignment. At the end of the call we scheduled another get together call in a week's time where I would share the outline and the first draft with the wider group.

Another formative activity this week was to prepare a summary post for the collaborative discussion. Unfortunately, I did not have time to do it. I do regret it, but work is as intense as ever. I would obviously never compromise my studies, especially as I am soon reaching the end. But I had to make a decision to not participate and focus on other keys areas of the module (and to an extend to my job). I normally enjoy the collaborative discussions in the modules, but on this occasion, I just did not have the time for it. I have read the posts from other students and I did enjoy them. I am just a bit sad I didn't participate as I always learn new things from others.