+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 6"
date = "2024-04-24"
description = "Software Engineering Project Management - Unit 6"
hidden = true
+++

## pytest and Test-Driven Development

Welcome to unit 6 reflections! We're now halfway through this module which also means that it's assessment week.

Last week we were given an introduction to testing, but this week is where all the meat is.

This week provided a good balance between theoretical and practical work. I have really enjoyed the pytest activity.

I have managed to make all the tests fail as per the requirements. My Jupyter notebook can be found by clicking [here.](https://github.com/sebdeol/e-portfolio/tree/main/content/activities/module_six/m6u6_activity.ipynb)

I had not worked with notebooks before, but I can now see why people like using them. It makes it really simple to come up with a python environment to write code or to query data with code.

## Group task

We had a bit of a panic on the group assignment task side because of the upcoming deadline. While I believe I had done my part of the work, we were debating on a few details. I believe some were quite nitpicks, like do we upload in a word or pdf format, but I guess that's all part of working in a group. In the end, we all agreed and submitted the assignment for grading. I was left a bit frustrated, as they were key things that I wanted to change. More on that in my week 12 reflection piece.

## References and further reading

- docs.pytest.org. (n.d.). pytest: helps you write better programs — pytest documentation. [online] Available from: https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.2.x/. [Accessed 24 Apr 2024]
- testdriven.io. (n.d.). Modern Test-Driven Development in Python. [online] Available from: https://testdriven.io/blog/modern-tdd/ [Accessed 24 Apr 2024]
- Mahlke, S. (2005). Understanding users’ experience of interaction. pp.251–254. doi:https://doi.org/10.5555/1124666.1124702.