+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 1"
date = "2024-05-05"
description = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 1"
hidden = true
+++

## Introduction to Research Methods. The Scientific Investigation and Ethics in Computing

I can not believe I am typing this, but this is the very first unit of my last taught module at the University of Essex Online.

Time has flown by, and I can't believe I have been studying for more than a year and a half now.

This new module is a bit different from all the previous ones, as we will be focusing more on research methods in order to prepare us for our Capstone projects.

If you know me, I am not the best at writing so it will be a challenging one, but as usual, I'll do my very best to achieve the highest grades possible.

Having had a quick look at all the units, I think this module will be challenging, it seems like this module has one of the heaviest workload. This does worry me a tiny bit as I have doubled-up on modules and I am currently studying two modules at the same time. Time will tell if I made the right choice.

### Topic choice

For my literature review, I have chosen the _Implement Machine Learning tools and/or techniques in: Detecting political misinformation on a social media platform of your choice_.

Out of all the available topics, this one is the one that resonates the most with me.

### e-Portfolio Assessment and Formative Activities

#### Reasoning Quiz

I've managed to score the highest grade (6/6) - [Click here for the results](/reasoning_quiz.pdf)

#### e-Portfolio Activity: Reflective Activity 1 – Ethics in Computing in the age of Generative AI

The reflective piece can be accessed [here](/reflective_activity_one.pdf)

### Units navigation

[Next unit (2)](/post/m7u2/)