+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 2"
date = "2024-05-12"
description = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 2"
hidden = true
+++

## Research Questions, the Literature Review and the Research Proposal

Believe it or not, but, if doubling-up on two modules at the same time wasn't enough, I've just been told that I will have to travel for two weeks to the US for work. This is now a recurring theme, in past modules, I've been traveling at the exact same time as when assignments were due. I guess this module will be no different.

This unit has introduced me to literature reviews and research proposals. As I have never written either before, the introduction and materials provided in this unit were quite beneficial. I don't think I am an expert, but hopefully in the coming weeks, I can learn more on how to write a great proposal. Clearly, developing around a research question is more challenging than I had anticipated. This requires careful consideration, refinement and commitment. All of this can not be rushed, and I must invest significant time to write the best proposal I can.

This week, I have also started to research current papers around my selected topic, I currently have a couple of good papers, but I definitely need some more. I'll aim to provide a handful in my literature review formative submission.

### e-Portfolio Assessment and Formative Activities

#### Collaborative Discussion

As part of the formative activities, we're being tasked to start a collaborative discussion that will last for the next three weeks.
I don't really have the time this week, so hopefully I can start contributing from next week.

#### Literature Review and Research Proposal Outlines

I've started my literature review outline. I'll be tweaking and refining it for the next two weeks. I'll link it in [unit 4](/post/m7u4/) as this is when we can submit it for formative feedback.