+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 3"
date = "2024-05-19"
description = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 3"
hidden = true
+++

## Methodology and Research Methods

I started this third week a bit stressed. For the next 3/4 weeks, the doubling-up of modules is coming right back at me. I have two assignments to give back for my other module and lots of reading and formative activities for this module.

In this unit, I have learned the difference between Exploratory Research and Conclusive Research. As mentioned previously, new concepts to me. If I had to resume briefly, exploratory research investigates a problem that is not yet clearly defined. On the other hand, conclusive research verifies insights to determine a course of action.

There are lots of terms to learn and become familiar with. Qualitative; Quantitative; Mixed Research methods; Primary vs Secondary data collection. I am still not 100% sure how I will leverage all these different frameworks for my very own research. While controversial given the amount of work required by this module, I would have benefited from more concrete examples illustrating when to use each methodology.

After this week, I feel a bit better for my research, though I will need to think critically about which methods best fit my specific questions and context.

### e-Portfolio Assessment and Formative Activities

#### Collaborative Discussion

Unfortunately, this week I had to sacrifice the collaborative discussion once again. I don't like not to participate in those but between two modules and work, I had to make some priority choices. Hopefully, I can start the discussion in the next unit.

#### Research Proposal Review

- _Which of the methods described in this week's reading would you think would suit your purpose?_

I think a mixed methods approach combining qualitative analysis of misinformation examples with quantitative machine learning techniques would likely suit my proposal better.

- _Which data collection methods would you consider using?_

I would consider using secondary data collection, gathering an existing dataset of verified true and false information from the X platform to train and test ML models.

- _Which required skills will you need to have or develop for the chosen project?_

I will need to develop skills in natural language processing and machine learning algorithms. I am by no means an expert so it will definitely be a challenge. But it excites me.


### Units navigation

[Previous unit](/post/m7u3/) - [Next unit](/post/m7u4/)