+++
author = "Sebastien"
title = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 8"
date = "2024-06-23"
description = "Research Methods and Professional Practice - Unit 8"
hidden = true
+++

# Data Analysis and Visualisation

Unit 8 shifted our focus from research methods to data analysis and visualisation.

As I looked into the details of handling and making sense of data, I noticed the big differences between quantitative and qualitative data. While quantitative data can be neatly shown using descriptive statistics, qualitative data is open to interpretation and needs a more careful approach to stay objective (Pereira, 2023).

I found the idea of coding qualitative data particularly interesting. The process of categorising observations, images, and words to find meaning is complex but important.

The growing importance of Business Intelligence tools and the use of dashboards to turn data into useful insights caught my eye. Being able to connect different metric and data sources to create visualisations can be powerful for companies to track success and make informed decisions (Microsoft, n.d).

This week I also received the grades for my first assignment, 68%. Not bad. I am a bit gutted that I missed the distinction mark by 2 points. But that's life.

## e-Portfolio Assessment

#### Collaborative Discussion 2

With the current workload of this module and work, it's been impossible for me to participate in the collaborative discussion.
I am trying really hard to balance the two, and I have had to skip this to get my studies and work on track.


## References

Microsoft (n.d.) Intro to dashboards for Power BI designers - Power BI. [online] learn.microsoft.com. Available from: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/create-reports/service-dashboards [Accessed 23 June 2024]

Pereira, L.F. (2023) Business research methods: systematic literature review. International Journal of Management Concepts and Philosophy 16(2): 145–145. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1504/ijmcp.2023.130029


### Units navigation

[Previous unit (7)](/post/m7u7/) - [Next unit (9)](/post/m7u9/)